The process of figuratively picking up your on-premises application and
dropping onto a server running on a Cloud provider is called lifting and shifting.
It's a simplest method available for migrating your application to the Cloud.
It doesn't require any particular Cloud skills or
knowledge other than adding some user authentication,
configuring the appropriate routes in the VPC,
and getting the dependencies installed and the database up in running.
It can all be done in a day or less.
Now, you have to consider that this method means bringing
all the application issues experienced on-premises right along over to the Cloud.
There won't be any miracles with this migration method.
In fact, problems and costs can begin to accelerate quickly upon
the realization that some performance improvements can be
achieved by allocating more Cloud resources to the application,
thus driving up the costs and
an unfortunate surprise maybe waiting at the end of the month.
Chances are you aren't moving to the Cloud so you can
give your application more resources on demand.
It probably wasn't under resource on-premises,
it was probably experiencing challenges from outdated,
confusing and overly patched code.
That's not to say Cloud migration can't or shouldn't be done, it should.
In fact, AWS has a service called AWS server migration service to assist in the process.
You have to start somewhere,
you just have to be aware of when you're throwing money at an engineering problem and
formulate a plan of action to address the application shortfalls after the migration.
Depending on the application,
serious consideration should be given to initiating
a re-engineering project to modernize
the application and give it a chance to operate at its highest potential.
If it's a foundational application that has a lot of heavy lifting,
runs long processes and experiences consistent traffic.
It's not a good candidate for serverless architecture,
but that doesn't mean it can't benefit from a Cloud focused redesign.
These applications can benefit from resource optimized EC2 instances,
application load balancers, and the favor of being matched with a database
that is appropriate for the application
instead of the database that is the corporate standard.
Applications that can most benefit from Cloud native redesign,
are lightweight applications whose actions can be driven by events.
Events trigger serverless functions to execute and can be actions like: API requests,
files being uploaded and messages being added to a queue.
Because serverless architecture is built by function,
it becomes clear why applications with lots of events and
long running functions would be too costly to run under a serverless paradigm.